docs/04_get_credentials.md, before:

# Azure Hipster Shop: AKS Microservices Demo

## 4. Get Kubectl and ACR credentials

### Get Kubectl credentials

Using Azure-cli:
```
$ az aks get-credentials --resource-group SysTest-k8s-resources --name SysTest-k8s --overwrite
```

Alternative: Using Terraform output variables:
```
$ export KUBECONFIG="$(terraform output kube_config)"
```

To later check which context you are connected to with kubectl:

```
kubectl config current-context
```

If you what to list all other contexts:

```
kubectl context view
```
### Examine Kluster Dashboard

#### AKS deployment of Dashboard

az aks browse --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster

See: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-dashboard

#### General deployment of Dashboard

kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/dashboard/v2.0.0-beta4/aio/deploy/recommended.yaml
kubectl proxy

http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kubernetes-dashboard/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/.


See: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/

### Login with Docker to Azure Cointer Registry

```
$ docker login $(terraform output acr_uri) -u $(terraform output acr_user) -p $(terraform output acr_password)

WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
WARNING! Your password will be stored unencrypted in /home/mord/.docker/config.json.
Configure a credential helper to remove this warning. See
https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#credentials-store

Login Succeeded
```

We will also store the ACR URI, so it is easier to reference outside terraform infrastructure directory:
```
$ export ACR_URI="$(terraform output acr_uri)" && echo $ACR_URI
```

```
$ set SKAFFOLD_DEFAULT_REPO="$(terraform output acr_uri)"
```

---
[Next step: 5. Create cluster with Skaffold](../docs/05_cluster_skaffold.md)  
[Previous step: 3. Provision infrastructure with Terraform](../docs/03_infra_terraform.md)

Commit message:

Content revision and aditional images

docs/04_get_credentials.md, after:

# Azure Hipster Shop: AKS Microservices Demo

## 4. Get Kubectl and ACR credentials

### Get Kubectl credentials

To store credentials needed to Kubectl to log into your cluster, use:
```
$ az aks get-credentials --resource-group SysTest-k8s-resources --name SysTest-k8s --overwrite
```

### Optional: Examine kubernetes cluster

#### Kubectl context

To check which context you are connected to with kubectl:

```
kubectl config current-context
```

If you what to list all other contexts:

```
kubectl context view
```

#### AKS deployment of Dashboard

You can deploy a web dashboard to inspect all the parameters of your cluster using:

```
az aks browse --resource-group SysTest-k8s-resources --name SysTest-k8s
```

A new browser window will open to the dashboard at http://127.0.0.1:8001 without having to enter aditional credentials. [More info at this link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-dashboard).

![Kubernetes dashboard](../docs/img/kube_dashboard.png)

_Alternative_: To do the same for any Kubernetes cluster, use:

```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/dashboard/v2.0.0-beta4/aio/deploy/recommended.yaml
kubectl proxy
```

And open the url: http://localhost:8001/api/v1/namespaces/kubernetes-dashboard/services/https:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/.
You will be asked for your credentials or kubeconfig configuration to log in.


See: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/

### Login with Docker to Azure Container Registry

We need to log in with the Docker client to our Azure Container Registry we created previously, so Skaffold can use it to push images to it.

To do so, use the following command from the `infra` folder that retrieves the neccesary variables from the Terraform state.

```
$ docker login $(terraform output acr_uri) -u $(terraform output acr_user) -p $(terraform output acr_password)

WARNING! Using --password via the CLI is insecure. Use --password-stdin.
WARNING! Your password will be stored unencrypted in /home/mord/.docker/config.json.
Configure a credential helper to remove this warning. See
https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#credentials-store

Login Succeeded
```

We will also store the ACR URI, so it is easier to reference outside terraform infrastructure directory:
```
$ ACR_URI="$(terraform output acr_uri)" && echo $ACR_URI
```

We will also store it in a environment variable name that Skaffold will recognize for it to use a different container registry that Docker Hub on each command execution:

```
$ set SKAFFOLD_DEFAULT_REPO=ACR_URI
```

---
[Next step: 5. Create cluster with Skaffold](../docs/05_cluster_skaffold.md)  
[Previous step: 3. Provision infrastructure with Terraform](../docs/03_infra_terraform.md)
